# mBONITA: multi-omics Boolean Omics Network Invariant-Time Analysis

## Authors:
Mukta G. Palshikar, Xiaojun Min, Alexander Crystal, Jiayue Meng, Shannon P. Hilchey, Martin Zand, Juilee Thakar

## Abstract:

Multi-omics profiling provides a holistic picture of a condition being examined and capture the complexity of signaling events, beginning from the original cause (environmental or genetic), to downstream functional changes at multiple molecular layers. Pathway enrichment analysis has been used with multi-omics datasets to characterize signaling mechanisms. However, technical and biological variability between these layered datasets are challenges for integrative computational analyses. We present a Boolean network-based method, multi-omics Boolean Omics Network Invariant-Time Analysis (mBONITA) to integrate omics datasets that quantify multiple molecular layers. mBONITA utilizes prior knowledge networks to perform topology-based pathway analysis. In addition, mBONITA identifies genes that are consistently modulated across molecular measurements by combining observed fold-changes and variance with a measure of node (i.e., gene or protein) influence over signaling, and a measure of the strength of evidence for that gene across datasets. We used mBONITA to integrate multi-omics datasets from RAMOS B cells treated with the immunosuppressant drug cyclosporine A under varying oxygen tensions to identify pathways involved in hypoxia-mediated chemotaxis. We compare mBONITA's performance with 6 other pathway analysis methods designed for multi-omics data and show that mBONITA identifies a set of pathways with evidence of modulation across all omics layers.
